.nh
.ad 1
.TH SANCTUM 1
.SH NAME
sanctum \- A small, reviewable and capable VPN daemon.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sanctum
[\-c file] [\-d] [\-h] [\-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sanctum
is a small, reviewable, capable and fully privilege seperated VPN
daemon capable of transporting encrypted network traffic between two peers.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d
Run as
.I sanctum
as a daemon. This option allows the program to run in the background,
detaching from the terminal.
.TP
.BR \-c " " file
Loads the given configuration file. See
.BR sanctum.conf(5).
.TP
.BR \-h
Prints the help. Display this help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v
Display version information. Show the version of the program and exit.

.SH DESIGN
.I Sanctum
is built using a multi-process approach where each process is only
doing one thing. This allows for more fine-grained sandboxing
in relation to permissions or allowed system calls.

Packets flow between these processes in a well-defined manner making
it impossible to move a packet straight from the red side to the black
side without passing the encryption process and vice-versa.

.SH ENCRYPTION
Traffic is by default encrypted under AES256-GCM with unique keys in
both the RX and TX directions using a 96-bit nonce consisting of a 32-bit
salt and 64-bit packet counter (see rfc4106).

For management traffic unique encryption keys are derived from the
shared secret on a per-message basis.

.I Sanctum
uses strong shared symmetrical secrets from which an encryption key
is derived for wrapping generated session keys that are exchanged
between peers. Each sanctum instance is responsible for sending
its
.I RX
session key to its configured peer periodically.

Keys are automatically expired after a given number of packets
have been sent on them (1 << 34), or after a 1-hour period.

Note that due to the symmetrical keying there is no PFS and thus
the shared secret must be kept a secret.

.SH AUTHORS

.I Sanctum
was designed and written by Joris Vink <joris@sanctorum.se> and
is licensed under the ISC license.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sanctum.conf(5)
