.nh
.ad 1
.TH SANCTUM.CONF 5
.SH NAME
sanctum.conf \- Configuration file for the Sanctum VPN daemon.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/sanctum.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I sanctum.conf
file is used to configure the Sanctum VPN daemon. It contains various options
that define how the daemon operates, including network settings, user
permissions, and more.

.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.BR mode " " <tunnel/pilgrim/shrine/cathedral/liturgy>
Set the operating mode of the daemon. Options include:
.RS 4
.TP
.B tunnel
Default mode for two-way encrypted tunnels.
.TP
.B pilgrim
One-directional tunnel where this instance sends traffic to a shrine peer.
.TP
.B shrine
One-directional tunnel where this instance receives traffic from a pilgrim peer.
.TP
.B cathedral
Mode for authenticated peer discovery, relay and key distribution.
.TP
.B liturgy
Mode for autodiscovery of peers in a cathedral.
.RE
.TP
.BR instance " " <name>
Specify the name of the instance.
.TP
.BR secret " " <path>
Path to the shared secret file for tunnels or cathedral federation.
.TP
.BR encapsulation " " <hex>
Set the key used for encapsulation. If used, this value must be set
on all instances that are part of the same setup.
.TP
.BR run " " <process> " as " <user>
Run the specified process as a specified user.
.TP
.BR control " " <path> " " <user>
Specify the control socket path and the user who owns it.
.TP
.BR local " " <ip:port>
Specify the local IP address and port sanctum shall bind too. May be set
to 0.0.0.0:0 for non cathedrals.

.SH TUNNEL SPECIFIC OPTIONS
.TP
.BR tunnel " " <ip/mask> " " <mtu>
Configure the tunnel settings, including the IP address, subnet mask,
and MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit).
.TP
.BR route " " <network>
Add a route to the specified network so that it gets routed over the tunnel.
.TP
.BR peer " " <ip:port>
Specify the peer's IP address and port. This can be set to 0.0.0.0:0 if the
peer location is unknown at the time of configuration.
.TP
.BR tap " " <yes/no>
When set to yes, create a tap device (L2) instead of a tun device (L3).
.TP
.BR tfc " " <on/off>
Enable or disable traffic flow control, which pads packets to the maximum
MTU size before encrypting them.
.TP
.BR cathedral " " <ip:port>
Specify the IP address and port of the cathedral server.
.TP
.BR cathedral_id " " <hex>
Set the ID used to authenticate the instance to the cathedral.
.TP
.BR cathedral_remembrance " " <path>
Path to the remembrance file used by the cathedral. This enables the
use of
.I remembrance
which is a feature where the cathedral will inform the peer about all
other cathedrals in the same setup, allowing the instance to perform
fail-over in the case of a cathedral becoming unresponsive.
.TP
.BR cathedral_nat_port " " <port>
Specify the NAT port for the cathedral. If set, the instance will send
packets to thise port as well so that the cathedral can determine if
what NAT type the instance is behind.
.TP
.BR cathedral_flock " " <hex>
Set the flock value to which the instance belongs to,
when communicating via a cathedral.
.TP
.BR cathedral_flock_dst " " <hex>
Set the flock value to which the instance is going to talk to,
when communicating via a cathedral. If not configured, this gets
the value of the
.BR cathedral_flock
setting.
.TP
.BR cathedral_secret " " <path>
Path to the cathedral secret, which is a 256-bit symmetrical key used
to provide traffic protection for offers that are sent and received from
the cathedrals.
.TP
.BR cathedral_cosk " " <path>
Path to the Cathedral Offer Signing Key. This is an ed25519 secret
key used to authenticate offers sent to the cathedrals.

.SH CATHEDRAL SPECIFIC OPTIONS
.TP
.BR secretdir " " <path>
Directory containing secret files for cathedral mode. This path contains
the client cathedral secrets and COSKs.
.TP
.BR settings " " <path>
Path to the settings file for cathedral mode. This settings file can be
reloaded by the cathedral while running and contains flock and peer
information.
.TP
.BR cathedral_nat_port " " <port>
Specify the NAT port for the cathedral. If set, the cathedral will listen
on this port for incoming packets to perform NAT detection.
.TP
.BR cathedral_p2p_sync " " <yes/no>
Enables the cathedral-wide p2p information synchronization.

.SH LITURGY SPECIFIC OPTIONS
.TP
.BR liturgy_group " " <hex>
Set the group ID for liturgy mode.
.TP
.BR liturgy_prefix " " <ip>
Specify the IP prefix for liturgy mode. This IP prefix should be in the
format
.I
172.16.0.0
The liturgy mode will then give fixed IP addresses in this prefix to
each peer using its src-dst combination.

.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example configuration file:

.nf
instance laptop

secret /etc/sanctum/laptop_secret.key

run control as _user
control /tmp/sanctum-control _user

tunnel 1.0.0.1/30 1422

route 2.0.0.0/24

local x.x.x.x:2333

peer y.y.y.y:2333

run bless as _bless
run confess as _confess

run heaven-rx as _heaven
run heaven-tx as _heaven

run purgatory-rx as _purgatory
run purgatory-tx as _purgatory

run bishop as root

run chapel as _chapel
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sanctum(1)
